# Verifica patente

*Verifica patente* is a mobile application which verify the mdl (mobile drive license) in a proximity scenario. To start the verification, Verifica patente needs to scan a qr code generated by another app which act as an EUDI wallet. Then the details of the drive license are sent via bluetooth from the digital wallet to Verifica patente, which is able to process and verify them, displaying the result. This work is based on the mdoc/mDL according to ISO/IEC 18013-5:2021 and the technical specification is detailed in this repository

# Setup App Development Environment

The recommended IDE for Android Development is **Android Studio**, available here. Download and install it.

# Installation

Android studio offers a built in function to import a project from a git repository. Open Android Studio and click on the button **get from vcs**. A popup will appear, select Git in the version control dropdown, then paste this url in the curresponding field: **https://github.com/italia/eudi-wallet-it-iso-verifier.git**.

Alternatively, clone the repository using the following command:

git clone https://github.com/italia/eudi-wallet-it-iso-verifier.git

Then import the project in Android Studio.

# Setup

Verifica patente has 2 variants, *prod* and *qa*. The last one is for testing purposes, since it stores in a local database the details of the communication between the 2 devices used. To choose which variant build, go in the build variants panel and select the preferred one in the Active Build Variants column. It is enough to select it for the module called *:App*.

Open the terminal and run

./gradlew assembleDebug

When the build is successful, you can run the app by doing the following: click Run -> Run 'app'.
Connect your phone or create a new virtual device following on screen instruction

# Technical requirements

Verifica Patente is currently available for Android devices. It is written in *kotlin*, using *jetpack compose* for the UI layer. It requires a device which run at least *Android 8.0 (api level 26)*. The device must have a *Camera* to scan the qr code and it must support *Bluetooth Low Energy* technology.

# License

Apache License Version 2.0 